Hello friends, in today's video we are going to
discuss that whenever you
purchase a health insurance policy,
what are the expresses in your health insurance policy, what are the
treatments which are
not covered by the health insurance company, that is,
if you fall ill due to that particular thing, then the
insurance company does not give you the money for that, here
whatever expenses, whatever treatment money is
given to you by the insurance company, that is,
whatever expenses, whatever treatment is
not covered in your health insurance, it is
called expression and here
in today's video we are going to talk about such most common
15x pujan, that is, we will
talk about the most common 15 points
due to which if you fall ill, then these are the roots, so even
if you have a health
insurance policy, still you will
not get the insurance claim money,
justice, along with this we will talk about some important tips
so that whenever you
purchase a health insurance policy in the future, you will
either renew your health insurance policy
or quote your health insurance policy to some other company,
you will have this kind of information  If it is
in me then now you will be able to take a good decision, you will
also see what is
included in your health insurance policy, what is activated, you should
purchase a health insurance policy from such a company
where more than half are cheated, so the
video is quite interesting, caffeine,
first of all I request you to
watch the entire ad of the video of friends so that no important
point is missed, so the first explanation here is that
whenever you purchase this health insurance
policy, there is a waiting period of
30 days in the case of all the health insurance companies, that is, from the
date on which you have purchased the insurance policy, apart from 30 days, if you
fall ill, then in that case you will
not get any insurance claim money,
but how can it be exceptional, where you are
hospitalized due to an accident, then
in that case you will get the insurance claim
money, the second point is
pre-existing business or
pre-existing health issue, that is, from the
date on which you purchase the health insurance policy to the
previous date
Till 181, that is, in the last four years,
if you have any medical condition or
any health issue, that is, any disease, then it will be
called a pre-existing disease.
For example, if someone travels abroad with a
medical condition like diabetes,
hypertension, high blood pressure, and has
this medical condition before taking the policy, then it will be
called a pre-existing disease.
Here, whatever health insurance policy you
take, you will have to
inform the health insurance company about this disease in advance.
Here, generally, you do
not get a health insurance policy, but for
whatever pre-existing
disease you have, you get a waiting
ticket, that is, you have to wait for that previous disease for
one year, for
two years, for three years, for four years, it
depends on which side the disease is and
how high the risk is. Here,
in this case of pre-existing, there is a waiting period of two to four
years. And here, the
important tip is that whatever health
insurance policy you take,  If you make a purchase, you should provide correct information about your
pre-existing
medical history to the health insurance company,
otherwise, the
chances of your train reservation may increase. The
third point is specific waiting
period. Here, every insurance company has
mentioned 20 to 25 diseases in its terms and conditions. There is a
list of 20 to 25 diseases in the unique pattern condition,
where it is said that if you suffer from any of these diseases, then the compensation
amount will be given to you after two years or
four years, that is, the
waiting period for 20 to 25 diseases is
two to four years. Here, for some
diseases, the waiting period is one year or two years, for
some diseases, it is
even three years or four years, depending on
which disease it is and what is the risk.
For example, piles and hernia are
covered only after two years. Here,
joint replacement is covered.  If there is an injury, it is
covered after 4 years. It depends on the
insurance companies.
How much waiting period is there for which disease in which insurance company and here one
thing has to be understood carefully that whatever we have
discussed that there is a waiting period of 30 days, either
one year or two year after year, then
this is the
waiting period which is
applicable at the time of policy introduction, when you transfer your
policy to any other insurance company
or renew your policy,
then here you do
not have to wait for the waiting period
as much as you have already waited and the
point is general explanation, here generally
you do not get claim for some expenses, in
which the first one is
hospital registration charges, hospital
admission fee, record charges or telephone
charges, whatever hospital expenses of this type,
you do not
get coverage for it, second is the cost of consumables
items, that is, for your treatment if it is
cotton, then bandage, then
face mask etc.  If you need a sanitizer, then the
insurance company does not give you the claim for all these expenses,
you have to pay it from your pocket
and the third is OPD expenses, that is,
you do not need to get admitted in the hospital,
now if you get any treatment through OPD, then
you do not get the money for its expenses normally,
but if you want, you
can cover all these expenses,
for this you will have to take the benefit of additional rider
by paying additional premium, now the
point here is permanent explosion, before this
we understood general explosion, so
in permanent explosion it is said that there are some
such diseases, some such diseases which the health
insurance company is never going to cover, that is, all
your other diseases will be
covered, but there will be some such diseases
which are never going to be covered, for
example, if a person had cancer earlier,
but now he has recovered and
wants to take a health insurance policy, then the
health insurance companies
here have to understand that this is the future, this person can get
cancer again  If yes, then it can
also happen here that the health insurance company will tell
that person that we will give you a health
insurance policy but will
not cover you for cancer, that is, if
you face any problem in the kitchen due to cancer, then
we will not pay for it. The
health insurance
company can also put a condition like this, this is what we
call permanent explosion. Sixth point
is cosmetic surgery unit, here if
a person does
any cosmetic surgery etc. to enhance his beauty, then
this thing is generally
not discovered by the health inspector, but if there has been an
accident due to which an injury has occurred
and here the doctor says
that cosmetic surgery is very
necessary, then in this case cosmetic
surgery will be covered. So the
important thing here is that whenever you
take a health insurance policy, then you should check in your
health insurance policy and terms and
conditions that if
any injury is necessary due to an accident, then
in that case cosmetic surgery is
covered or not. Seventh point is eye care, dental
care and hearing, that is, if  If you get your eyes,
teeth and ears checked and
treated, then in this case there is
no need to get hospitalized normally,
here the OPD number reduces, the
health insurance company does
not cover this thing generally, but
if due to an accident someone has to get
admitted in the hospital, then
this thing is covered, so the
important thing here is that whenever
you purchase a health insurance policy, there are
many health insurance
companies which cover this thing, so
you have to check in the terms and conditions of your health insurance whether
this thing is covered, whether it is
reported, whether it is recovered due to the incident or it is
covered in normal cases also,
one point is the expenses
related to pregnancy and childbirth and
avoiding such options is illegal,
no cream is available for this thing, but
here some insurance companies cover the expenses of pregnancy and childbirth,
some insurance companies do not cover it,
which insurance companies cover  It
imposes a waiting period here,
from normal to thirty-six months, that is,
if someone has an accident before this, he does
not have any money left for it. After the waiting period,
if there are expenses like this,
then it gives the money. There is one more condition here
that some insurance companies already
impose a condition that you will be given limited cover.
For example, the amount of your health
insurance policy will be that 10
percent of the health insurance policy can be spent
in case of pregnancy and childbirth, that is,
if someone has a
health insurance policy of Rs 10 lakh, then if you
send Rs 10 lakh, it will be Rs 1 lakh. So, you can use only
Rs 1 lakh for pregnancy and childbirth
expenses. So, the
important tip here is that the
waiting period should be at least Rs 1 lakh in case of pregnancy and childbirth.
Here, if you
want, you can also take additional rider cover,
wiping, additional cream, Rs 981,
diagnostic charges like
X-ray, ultrasound, all these
expenses in health insurance.  Is it covered or not?
So here in general case,
if you get treatment through OPD, then
it is not covered, but
if you are admitted in the hospital for at least for an
hour, here you type this on the doctor,
for this statement it is
necessary to get these reports, then it is
covered in that case, so here the
important tip is that you should
check in the tense condition of your health insurance whether it is covered
or not or you can confirm
from the urgent ones of your health insurance,
10.00 form only
injury, that is, if you
harm yourself, for example, if someone
attempts suicide, or if a
person gets injured at home due to illegal activity,
or if someone takes injury-6
due to which he gets injured, for
example, motor riding, horse
riding, you do any riding in this way, then
in all these cases, if you are in these, then
this thing is not covered.
11.30  So, alkaline consumption means that
if you have this disease due to excessive consumption
of alcohol, then alkaline consumption is
not covered under health insurance.
For example, if a person's liver is
damaged due to excessive consumption of alcohol
and later in the report it is found that the
level of alkaline is more than their salary, then
they will not be given plane money.
And here is an important tip
that you must confirm that if
any accident occurs due to alkaline consumption, then is
that thing covered or
not covered? So this point is non-
allopathic treatment, treatment like
Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy,
these are all alternative treatments
of allopathy, here some insurance companies cover it,
some insurance companies do not cover it.
Here, among the insurance
companies which cover, there are some
insurance companies which
impose a limit that whatever your time shot
is, ten percent or five percent, that is, there is a
clear limit on this type of treatment.  You
can do this, in general,
many insurance companies cover this here,
so whichever health
insurance policy you purchase here, then you
must confirm this thing because it is
very important to have only treatment input.
33.3 is that if you are
admitted to the hospital, whether it is directly or
indirectly due to injury or either for age limit or
radiations or chemical or due to
biological weapons or
due to any radiation, then you will
not get the claim for it. Here is the important tip
that you must confirm one thing in your health insurance
that if
any injury is necessary due to terrorist attack, then
in that case will you get the money for the treatment or not, the
point is that in case of unproven,
attested, unconventional experimental
treatment, you will
not get the money for any cream and here 15.3 is that
if you take dietary supplements, for
example, vitamins, minerals or if you take any
dietary supplement without any doctor's
prescription, then here this thing
You will not get any cream of this thing, it
must be written in the terms and conditions
that from which you will get the play and
from which you will not claim,
half a minute, if there is confusion then every
health insurance company definitely tells about what
things it does not cover in its health insurance plan,
which you will find in the list of explanations
where we have already talked about the 15 most common
explanations,
apart from this there is some other experience which varies from
insurance company to company,
so you cannot read that here,
in the case of Angeles Health Insurance Company, there will be the
least explanation,
you should select that health insurance company, so
friends, this was the entire video, I
hope you must have got some valuable information from this video,
if you got value from this video, then definitely like the
video, subscribe to the channel,
definitely share this video with your family, friend and relatives,
Jai Hind to friends